#summary Procedure steps for using the Biogeomancer tool.
#labels Featured
#sidebar TableOfContents

[http://code.google.com/p/iabin-threats/wiki/RunningProcedureBG?wl=en http://iabin-threats.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/resources/gb.gif]
[http://code.google.com/p/iabin-threats/wiki/RunningProcedureBG?wl=es http://iabin-threats.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/resources/es.gif]

<wiki:toc />

= Introduction =

This tutorial will describe the different procedure steps in order to have a fully functional installation of the Biogeomancer tool.
  
===1 The configuration files===
====Description====
First of all, the values of the  XML configuration file parameters _server_config.xml_ should be set.
 
If the configuration file have not been created yet, you can generate it with default values using the script described in the Technical Procedure section. You can then edit it to set the corresponding values.  

Most of these parameters are files and directories  paths. Examples of default settings are in the project source code. 

*Outputs:* Configuration file: _server_config.xml_.

====Technical procedure====
To generate the default configuration file, run the script with java using the following parameters for the server part: 

 {{{java -cp ita.jar org.ciat.ita.bg.server.ServerConfig}}}

Then edit the file server_config.xml
  
   
===2 georeferencing===
====Description====
In order to use the geo-referencing tool, you must provide the number of records that you want to process. 

*Inputs:* MySQL table with the occurrence records of the database (which are selected from the table specified in server_config.xml), and the 

*Outputs:* the geo-referenced records are written aside to the original records, in the same table, in fields Blatitude, Blongitude, Uncertainty and is_fixed.

====Technical procedure====
Run into the database the sql query file named “QUERY_creates_table_georeferenced_records.sql” 

Command line example: 

 {{{mysql –u User –p portal < QUERY_creates_table_georeferenced_records.sql }}}

====Finalize====
Once the query has been run, the tables georeferenced_records and temp_georeferenced_records are created. 

====Technical procedure====
Run the script in java with the following parameters: 

*Parameters:* 
 
 {{{-Xmx<BYTES>}}} bytes of Maximum java heap size 

*Command line:*

 {{{java -XmxBYTES -cp ita.jar org.ciat.ita.bg.Biogeomancer}}}


===Standalone===

In standalone mode you just need to run a single instance.

*Parameters:*
 {{{-Xmx<BYTES>}}} of Maximum java heap size 

*Command line:*

 {{{java -XmxBYTES -cp ita.jar}}}

example 

 {{{java -Xmx1500m -jar ita.jar}}}

